---
layout: post
title: "Amateurs and other experts"
tags: learning experts
---
# Not a huge fan

For someone interested in learning, becoming an expert is a very dangerous thing. I the words of Frank Lloyd Wright "an expert is a man who has stopped thinking because 'he knows.'

Yet the education and learning experts are occupied trying to measure and compare what we know. Clearly at age 5,10, or 15 we will not already know all the things we will know. Wouldn't it therefore make more sense trying to measure the things we night be capable of knowing - a function of our a ability to ask questions and pursue their answers? A function of our curiosity. 

Yes it would but this is where the whole learning analytics and measurement frameworks come crashing down. Because is it even possible to "measure" curiosity or doesn't the simple attempt make it disappear?

That might be the kind of question the experts won't ask, only the amateurs will. 

# Background

I was inspired to write about amateurs by today's [brainpickings post](http://www.brainpickings.org/index.php/2014/03/12/austin-kleon-show-your-work/) and by my experience speaking at the congress of the German Association of Learning Sciences (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Erziehungswissenschaften). I started off by saying that I was not a huge fan of experts and went on to talk about peer learning. Some of the experts in the room didn't agree and we ended up having a great conversation about the pros and cons of having experts involved in the work of learners. My take awaysare that it is important to distinguish between subject matter experts and facilitators, and that I need to set up my definitions of experts and amateurs earlier on in the talk. 

Here is to asking more questions. As Esther Dyson's email footer used to say "Make new mistakes every day". 


