---
layout: post
title: Why is it so hard to be German
comments: true
tags:
---
"We f..ing deserved it" aka "why is it so hard to be German?"

I've lived outside of Germany for more than half of my live, but I was born and grew up in Cologne. And I am a 100% a "koelsche Jung" (a boy from Cologne) as we say at home. But I've always found it easier to be from Cologne than from Germany. Because it's not easy being German. The rest of the world may respect us, but it often feels like they don't really like us. And that hurts. 

Today, we won the world cup. And it made me cry. It made me cry, because I am not in Germany to celebrate with my family and friends. And it made me cry, because somehow it felt like we were up against the rest of the world.

One of my best friends is Argentinian, and I will gladly admit the game could have gone either way. I would have been ok with Argentina winning, because they were dangerous all the way to the end, and one goal makes all the difference. But I am happy that the German team won, because they played amazing football throughout the tournament. They always tried to play their own game and win. And they worked harder during the final - they deserved it. 

But being German, I have a hard time even saying that we deserved to win a soccer game. That is because most of the time, you try to fly under the radar. You celebrate quietly, when other nations get to scream out their support for the national team. But maybe it's about time to change that. Why do I have to qualify that my parents weren't born in Germany, when people ask me where I am from? I wish I could just share with everyone the Germany I know. I certainly don't love all of it, and the Germans are the world champions not only in football, but also in criticizing themselves. But even though I've chosen to live in other countries, there is a lot that's good about Germany and I wish we could find a better way to share it. 

Part of me feels sick of having to feel conflicted about being German. Screw you, rest of the world! We may not have your savoir vivre, your dolce vita, your American dream, but we're doing alright. And maybe Germany isn't quite what you may think it is. Sure, many of us are a bit stiff. And we generally can't dance. But Germany can laugh about itself. And we'd get better at it if for a moment you laughed with us (and not about us). 

Give us a chance, and you'll find people will become your friends forever, who are ridiculously loyal (and trusting) and who generally try to do the right thing. We have a Government that largely refuses to spy on its own citizens and other countries. We don't fight wars outside of our borders. We believe healthy democratic societies require the rich to give back to the poor. We limit the ownership of guns so people don't kill each other to resolve disputes. And we try to balance economic growth with preserving the environment (for everyone else)?

And in case you didn't notice, we just won the Worldcup! Which makes me miss my Koelle so much, I want to cry. Because the second biggest carnival in the world is in Cologne. And today, it might be the biggest. 

